---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "zonefile_record_sets Data Source - zonefile"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Read a DNS zone file and return RRSets: resource records grouped by name, class, and type.
---

# zonefile_record_sets (Data Source)

Read a DNS zone file and return RRSets: resource records grouped by name, class, and type.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "zonefile_record_sets" "example" {
  origin  = "terraform-provider-zonefile.example."
  content = file("terraform-provider-zonefile.example.zone")
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `content` (String) The entire zone file as a string. You can read this from disk with the file(…) function or local_file data source.

### Optional

- `origin` (String) The origin for relative record names in the file, equivalent to an $ORIGIN directive at the top of the file. If set, the provider will populate the "name" field of records. Otherwise, only "fqdn" will be available even if the file includes an $ORIGIN directive.

### Read-Only

- `rrsets` (Attributes List) The zone file's resource records grouped by name, class, and type. Unlike the records data source, this data source will fail with an error if any RRs in an RRSet have inconsistent TTLs (per RFC 2181 section 5.2). (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--rrsets))

<a id="nestedatt--rrsets"></a>
### Nested Schema for `rrsets`

Read-Only:

- `class` (String) The record's class, usually IN (Internet).
- `data` (List of String) The record data (RDATA) for each RR in canonical presentation format (that is, how you might write it in a zone file). The provider parses the fields of select record types like MX and SRV, which is more robust than pulling them out of the RDATA strings.
- `fqdn` (String) The record's fully qualified name. Unlike "name", this includes the effect of any $ORIGIN directives and ends with a trailing dot.
- `mx` (Attributes List) The parsed fields of MX records, or null if this isn't an MX RRSet. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--rrsets--mx))
- `name` (String) The record's name relative to the origin in the data source configuration. This will be null for the zone apex ("@" in a zone file), or if the data source configuration does not specify an origin (even if the zone file includes an $ORIGIN directive).
- `srv` (Attributes List) The parsed fields of SRV records, or null if this isn't an SRV RRSet. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--rrsets--srv))
- `ttl` (Number) The record's TTL as an integer number of seconds. This includes the effect of any $TTL directives in the zone file.
- `txt` (List of String) The concatenation of multiple strings in each TXT record, or null if this isn't a TXT RRSet. Individual strings in a TXT RDATA section must be 255 characters or less, but a single TXT RR can define multiple logically concatenated strings. Your provider may require special handling if any of these values are longer than 255 characters.
- `type` (String) The record's type as an uppercase string: A, AAAA, CNAME, TXT, etc.

<a id="nestedatt--rrsets--mx"></a>
### Nested Schema for `rrsets.mx`

Read-Only:

- `exchange` (String) The domain name of the host acting as a mail exchange for the owner name.
- `preference` (Number) The preference given to this MX record among others at the same owner.


<a id="nestedatt--rrsets--srv"></a>
### Nested Schema for `rrsets.srv`

Read-Only:

- `port` (Number) The port on this target host of this service.
- `priority` (Number) The priority of the target host, with lower priorities taking precedence.
- `target` (String) The domain name of the target host.
- `weight` (Number) The relative weight for a target with the same priority as another.
